# [1052. Grumpy Bookstore Owner](https://leetcode.com/problems/grumpy-bookstore-owner)

## Description

There is a bookstore owner that has a store open for `n` minutes. You are given an integer array `customers` of length `n` where `customers[i]` is the number of the customers that enter the store at the start of the `ith` minute and all those customers leave after the end of that minute.

During certain minutes, the bookstore owner is grumpy. You are given a binary array grumpy where `grumpy[i]` is `1` if the bookstore owner is grumpy during the `ith` minute, and is `0` otherwise.

When the bookstore owner is grumpy, the customers entering during that minute are not **satisfied**. Otherwise, they are satisfied.

The bookstore owner knows a secret technique to remain **not grumpy** for `minutes` consecutive minutes, but this technique can only be used **once**.

Return the **maximum** number of customers that can be _satisfied_ throughout the day.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** customers = \[1,0,1,2,1,1,7,5\], grumpy = \[0,1,0,1,0,1,0,1\], minutes = 3  
**Output:** 16  
**Explanation:**  
The bookstore owner keeps themselves not grumpy for the last 3 minutes.  
The maximum number of customers that can be satisfied = 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 7 + 5 = 16.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** customers = \[1\], grumpy = \[0\], minutes = 1  
**Output:** 1

**Constraints:**

- `n == customers.length == grumpy.length`
- `1 <= minutes <= n <= 2 * 10^4`
- `0 <= customers[i] <= 1000`
- `grumpy[i]` is either `0` or `1`.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Approach: Two-Pointer, seeing maximum amount of unsatisfied customers we can convert in a minutes-sized subarray
const maxSatisfied = (customers, grumpy, minutes) => {
  let satisfiedCustomers = 0;
  let convertedCustomers = 0;

  // Build initial window
  for (let i = 0; i < minutes; ++i) {
    // Count customers that are already satisfied, without the owner
    // making use of his secret technique!
    if (grumpy[i] === 0) satisfiedCustomers += customers[i];

    // Only customers that aren't satisfied are converted
    // I.e if they're already satisfied, making the owner not grumpy
    // during this minute would provide no benefit!
    convertedCustomers += grumpy[i] * customers[i];
  }

  // The initial window contains the initial best conversion window
  let maxConvertedCustomers = convertedCustomers;

  // Slide the window to check for other candidates to use our minutes
  for (let i = minutes; i < customers.length; ++i) {
    // Count customers that are already satisfied
    if (grumpy[i] === 0) satisfiedCustomers += customers[i];

    // Remove contribution of old left side of window
    convertedCustomers -= grumpy[i - minutes] * customers[i - minutes];

    // Add contribution of new right side of window
    convertedCustomers += grumpy[i] * customers[i];

    // Update (potentially) result
    maxConvertedCustomers = Math.max(maxConvertedCustomers, convertedCustomers);
  }

  return satisfiedCustomers + maxConvertedCustomers;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |
