# [2391. Minimum Amount of Time to Collect Garbage](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-amount-of-time-to-collect-garbage)

## Description

You are given a **0-indexed** array of strings `garbage` where `garbage[i]` represents the assortment of garbage at the `ith` house. `garbage[i]` consists only of the characters `'M'`, `'P'` and `'G'` representing one unit of metal, paper and glass garbage respectively. Picking up **one** unit of any type of garbage takes `1` minute.

You are also given a **0-indexed** integer array `travel` where `travel[i]` is the number of minutes needed to go from house `i` to house `i + 1`.

There are three garbage trucks in the city, each responsible for picking up one type of garbage. Each garbage truck starts at house `0` and must visit each house **in order**; however, they do **not** need to visit every house.

Only **one** garbage truck may be used at any given moment. While one truck is driving or picking up garbage, the other two trucks **cannot** do anything.

Return _the **minimum** number of minutes needed to pick up all the garbage._

**Example 1:**

**Input:** garbage = \["G","P","GP","GG"\], travel = \[2,4,3\]  
**Output:** 21  
**Explanation:**  
The paper garbage truck:

1. Travels from house 0 to house 1
2. Collects the paper garbage at house 1
3. Travels from house 1 to house 2
4. Collects the paper garbage at house 2  
   Altogether, it takes 8 minutes to pick up all the paper garbage.  
   The glass garbage truck:
5. Collects the glass garbage at house 0
6. Travels from house 0 to house 1
7. Travels from house 1 to house 2
8. Collects the glass garbage at house 2
9. Travels from house 2 to house 3
10. Collects the glass garbage at house 3
    
Altogether, it takes 13 minutes to pick up all the glass garbage.  
Since there is no metal garbage, we do not need to consider the metal garbage truck.  
Therefore, it takes a total of 8 + 13 = 21 minutes to collect all the garbage.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** garbage = \["MMM","PGM","GP"\], travel = \[3,10\]  
**Output:** 37  
**Explanation:**  
The metal garbage truck takes 7 minutes to pick up all the metal garbage.  
The paper garbage truck takes 15 minutes to pick up all the paper garbage.  
The glass garbage truck takes 15 minutes to pick up all the glass garbage.  
It takes a total of 7 + 15 + 15 = 37 minutes to collect all the garbage.

**Constraints:**

- `2 <= garbage.length <= 10^5`
- `garbage[i]` consists of only the letters `'M'`, `'P'`, and `'G'`.
- `1 <= garbage[i].length <= 10`
- `travel.length == garbage.length - 1`
- `1 <= travel[i] <= 100`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const garbageCollection = (garbage, travel) => {
  let result = 0;
  const last = new Array(128).fill(0);

  // Visit each house...
  for (let i = 0; i < garbage.length; ++i) {
    // We have to pick up each unit of garbage eventually, so they each
    // contribute +1 to the result
    result += garbage[i].length;

    // Mark the latest house each type of garbage was found at
    for (let j = 0; j < garbage[i].length; ++j) {
      last[garbage[i][j]] = i;
    }
  }

  // Turn travel[j] into a prefix sum, where travel[j] represents
  // how much total time to travel from house 0 to house j
  for (let j = 1; j < travel.length; ++j) {
    travel[j] += travel[j - 1];
  }

  // For each of the three garbage types (trucks), see which house that
  // garbage type appeared it. To our result add the distance required to travel
  // to that house, using the prefix sum we calculated
  for (const char of 'PGM') {
    if (last[char] > 0) {
      result += travel[last[char] - 1];
    }
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity               | Space Complexity |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------- |
| O(Num Houses + Garbage Units) | O(1)             |

```js
// Approach: Same as the below Brute-Force, but written
// in a way that may possibly be more clear on how we are
// treating the distance traveled.
const garbageCollection = (garbage, travel) => {
  let result = 0;
  const trucks = ['M', 'P', 'G'];

  for (let truck of trucks) {
    let distanceSinceLastPickup = 0;

    for (let i = 0; i < garbage.length; ++i) {
      distanceSinceLastPickup += travel[i - 1] || 0;

      if (garbage[i].includes(truck)) {
        result += distanceSinceLastPickup;
        distanceSinceLastPickup = 0;

        for (let trash of garbage[i]) {
          if (trash === truck) ++result;
        }
      }
    }
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity               | Space Complexity |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------- |
| O(Num Houses + Garbage Units) | O(1)             |

```js
// Approach: Brute-Force by simulating the process
const garbageCollection = (garbage, travel) => {
  let result = 0;
  const trucks = ['M', 'P', 'G'];

  for (let truck of trucks) {
    let lastHouseVisited = 0;

    for (let i = 0; i < garbage.length; ++i) {
      // Does this garbage include a type that the truck is concerned with?
      if (garbage[i].includes(truck)) {
        // We HAVE to travel to this house to pick up a garbage type we need
        // So add the time it took to travel to the house to our result. We must
        // travel from the last house we visited all the way up to this house
        for (let j = lastHouseVisited; j < i; ++j) {
          result += travel[j] || 0;
        }

        // Mark this house as the last one we visited
        lastHouseVisited = i;

        for (let char of garbage[i]) {
          if (char === truck) {
            ++result; // Takes one minute to pick this up
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity               | Space Complexity |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------- |
| O(Num Houses + Garbage Units) | O(1)             |
