# [2410. Maximum Matching of Players with Trainers](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-matching-of-players-with-trainers)

## Description

You are given a **0-indexed** integer array `players`, where `players[i]` represents the **ability** of the `ith` player. You are also given a **0-indexed** integer array `trainers`, where `trainers[j]` represents the **training capacity** of the `jth` trainer.

The `ith` player can **match** with the `jth` trainer if the player's ability is **less than or equal to** the trainer's training capacity. Additionally, the `ith` player can be matched with at most one trainer, and the `jth` trainer can be matched with at most one player.

Return _the **maximum** number of matchings between_ `players` _and_ `trainers` _that satisfy these conditions._

**Example 1:**

**Input:** players = \[4,7,9\], trainers = \[8,2,5,8\]  
**Output:** 2  
**Explanation:**  
One of the ways we can form two matchings is as follows:

- players\[0\] can be matched with trainers\[0\] since 4 <= 8.
- players\[1\] can be matched with trainers\[3\] since 7 <= 8.  
  It can be proven that 2 is the maximum number of matchings that can be formed.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** players = \[1,1,1\], trainers = \[10\]  
**Output:** 1  
**Explanation:**  
The trainer can be matched with any of the 3 players.  
Each player can only be matched with one trainer, so the maximum answer is 1.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= players.length, trainers.length <= 10^5`
- `1 <= players[i], trainers[j] <= 10^9`

**Note:** This question is the same as [445: Assign Cookies.](https://leetcode.com/problems/assign-cookies/description/)

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Approach: Sort inputs and use a Greedy approach.
const matchPlayersAndTrainers = function (players, trainers) {
  let result = 0;

  // Player's ability must be <= trainer's capacity
  // Match most-able player with highest-capacity trainer at each choice
  players.sort((a, b) => a - b);
  trainers.sort((a, b) => a - b);

  let playerIdx = players.length - 1;
  let trainerIdx = trainers.length - 1;

  while (playerIdx >= 0 && trainerIdx >= 0) {
    // Can this player can be trained by the remaining highest-capacity trainer?
    if (players[playerIdx] <= trainers[trainerIdx]) {
      // Increment our result and move onto the next player and trainer
      result++;
      playerIdx--;
      trainerIdx--;
    } else playerIdx--; // We cannot train this player; move on!
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N \* Log(N))  | O(Sorting)       |
