# [2461. Maximum Sum of Distinct Subarrays with Length K](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-sum-of-distinct-subarrays-with-length-k)

## Description

You are given an integer array `nums` and an integer `k`. Find the maximum subarray sum of all the subarrays of `nums` that meet the following conditions:

- The length of the subarray is `k`, and
- All the elements of the subarray are **distinct**.

Return _the maximum subarray sum of all the subarrays that meet the conditions_. If no subarray meets the conditions, return `0`.

_A **subarray** is a contiguous non-empty sequence of elements within an array._

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = \[1,5,4,2,9,9,9\], k = 3  
**Output:** 15  
**Explanation:** The subarrays of nums with length 3 are:

- \[1,5,4\] which meets the requirements and has a sum of 10.
- \[5,4,2\] which meets the requirements and has a sum of 11.
- \[4,2,9\] which meets the requirements and has a sum of 15.
- \[2,9,9\] which does not meet the requirements because the element 9 is repeated.
- \[9,9,9\] which does not meet the requirements because the element 9 is repeated.  
  We return 15 because it is the maximum subarray sum of all the subarrays that meet the conditions

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = \[4,4,4\], k = 3  
**Output:** 0  
**Explanation:** The subarrays of nums with length 3 are:

- \[4,4,4\] which does not meet the requirements because the element 4 is repeated.  
  We return 0 because no subarrays meet the conditions.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= k <= nums.length <= 105`
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 105`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Approach: Sliding Window with a Set
const maximumSubarraySum = (nums, k) => {
  // Our returned result is the maximum sum found
  // We will also need to track the sum of current window
  let maxSum = 0;
  let sum = 0;

  // Our classic Sliding Window will utilize left and right pointers
  let start = 0;
  let end = 0;

  // A Set will help us easily detect K unique values
  const set = new Set();

  while (end < nums.length) {
    // While the set has the element entering the window,
    // it is not a valid window. So we will shrink the window
    // by incrementing start, and remove the element that just
    // left that shrinking window
    while (set.has(nums[end]) || set.size === k) {
      // Reduce the sum by this element
      sum -= nums[start];

      // Remember, we must also remove this element from the Set
      set.delete(nums[start]);

      // Shrink window
      start++;
    }

    // By this point our window is <= k, so we can process new element entering window
    sum += nums[end];
    set.add(nums[end]);

    // We only have a new result if our window is exactly length k
    if (set.size === k) maxSum = Math.max(maxSum, sum);

    // Expand window for next iteration
    end++;
  }

  return maxSum;
};
```

```js
/*
Approach: Sliding Window with Hash Map
Note: Too slow to pass, probably due to deleting map elements
*/
const maximumSubarraySum = (nums, k) => {
  let maxSum = 0;
  let left = 0;
  let right = 0;
  let sum = 0;
  const map = {};

  while (right < nums.length) {
    // Process the new element
    sum += nums[right];
    map[nums[right]] = map[nums[right]] + 1 || 1;
    right++;

    // Is our window too large?
    if (right - left > k) {
      // Unprocess the element that just left the window
      sum -= nums[left];
      map[nums[left]] -= 1;
      if (map[nums[left]] === 0) delete map[nums[left]];
      left++;
    }

    // Is our window at target size? Do we have k uniques?
    if (right - left === k && Object.values(map).length === k) {
      // That means we have a potential new result
      maxSum = Math.max(maxSum, sum);
    }
  }

  return maxSum;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |
