# [2491. Divide Players Into Teams of Equal Skill](https://leetcode.com/problems/divide-players-into-teams-of-equal-skill)

## Description

You are given a positive integer array `skill` of **even** length `n` where `skill[i]` denotes the skill of the `ith` player. Divide the players into `n / 2` teams of size `2` such that the total skill of each team is **equal**.

The **chemistry** of a team is equal to the **product** of the skills of the players on that team.

Return _the sum of the **chemistry** of all the teams, or return_ `-1` _if there is no way to divide the players into teams such that the total skill of each team is equal._

**Example 1:**

**Input:** skill = \[3,2,5,1,3,4\]  
**Output:** 22  
**Explanation:**  
Divide the players into the following teams: (1, 5), (2, 4), (3, 3), where each team has a total skill of 6.  
The sum of the chemistry of all the teams is: 1 \* 5 + 2 \* 4 + 3 \* 3 = 5 + 8 + 9 = 22.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** skill = \[3,4\]  
**Output:** 12  
**Explanation:**  
The two players form a team with a total skill of 7.  
The chemistry of the team is 3 \* 4 = 12.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** skill = \[1,1,2,3\]  
**Output:** -1  
**Explanation:**  
There is no way to divide the players into teams such that the total skill of each team is equal.

**Constraints:**

- `2 <= skill.length <= 10^5`
- `skill.length` is even.
- `1 <= skill[i] <= 1000`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Approach: Avoid sorting by using a frequency table
const dividePlayers = (skill) => {
  const n = skill.length;
  let totalSkill = 0;
  const frequency = new Array(2001);

  for (let playerSkill of skill) {
    totalSkill += playerSkill;
    frequency[playerSkill]++;
  }

  // Calculate how much skill each team should have, and if it's
  // not an integer, forming equal teams must be impossible
  const targetTeamSkill = (totalSkill * 2) / n;
  if (targetTeamSkill % 1 !== 0) return -1;

  let totalChemistry = 0;

  for (playerSkill of skill) {
    // Find the required partner skill (complement to our skill)
    const partnerSkill = targetTeamSkill - playerSkill;

    // Does a partner with complementing skill exist?
    if (frequency[partnerSkill] === 0) return -1;

    // Add this team's chemistry to total
    totalChemistry += playerSkill * partnerSkill;

    // Remove this player from future partnerships
    frequency[partnerSkill]--;
  }

  // Return half, since we counted each team twice (we only decremented partner skill
  // frequency in each iteration, not that of both team members).
  return totalChemistry / 2;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |

```js
// Approach: Sort and pair equidistant skill levels
const dividePlayers = (skill) => {
  const n = skill.length;
  let totalChemistry = 0;
  const sortedSkill = skill.toSorted((a, b) => a - b);
  let targetTeamSkill = sortedSkill[0] + sortedSkill[n - 1];

  for (let i = 0; i < skill.length / 2; ++i) {
    if (sortedSkill[i] + sortedSkill[n - i - 1] !== targetTeamSkill) return -1;
    totalChemistry += sortedSkill[i] * sortedSkill[n - i - 1];
  }

  return totalChemistry;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N \* Log(N))  | O(N)             |
