# [2905. Find Indices with Index and Value Difference II](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-indices-with-index-and-value-difference-ii)

## Description

You are given a **0-indexed** integer array `nums` having length `n`, an integer `indexDifference`, and an integer `valueDifference`.

Your task is to find **two** indices `i` and `j`, both in the range `[0, n - 1]`, that satisfy the following conditions:

- `abs(i - j) >= indexDifference`, and
- `abs(nums[i] - nums[j]) >= valueDifference`

Return _an integer array_ `answer`, _where_ `answer = [i, j]` _if there are two such indices_, _and_ `answer = [-1, -1]` _otherwise_. If there are multiple choices for the two indices, return _any of them_.

**Note:** `i` and `j` may be **equal**.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [5,1,4,1], indexDifference = 2, valueDifference = 4  
**Output:** [0,3]  
**Explanation:** In this example, i = 0 and j = 3 can be selected.  
abs(0 - 3) >= 2 and abs(nums[0] - nums[3]) >= 4.  
Hence, a valid answer is [0,3].  
[3,0] is also a valid answer.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [2,1], indexDifference = 0, valueDifference = 0  
**Output:** [0,0]  
**Explanation:** In this example, i = 0 and j = 0 can be selected.  
abs(0 - 0) >= 0 and abs(nums[0] - nums[0]) >= 0.  
Hence, a valid answer is [0,0].  
Other valid answers are [0,1], [1,0], and [1,1].

**Example 3:**

**Input:** nums = [1,2,3], indexDifference = 2, valueDifference = 4  
**Output:** [-1,-1]  
**Explanation:** In this example, it can be shown that it is impossible to find two indices that satisfy both conditions.  
Hence, [-1,-1] is returned.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= n == nums.length <= 10^5`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 10^9`
- `0 <= indexDifference <= 10^5`
- `0 <= valueDifference <= 10^9`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const findIndices = (nums, idxDiff, valDiff) => {
  let minIdx = 0;
  let maxIdx = 0;

  // Note that we start off iterating from idxDiff, so our current index will always
  // be greater than the indices we are comparing it to
  for (let i = idxDiff; i < nums.length; ++i) {
    if (nums[i - idxDiff] < nums[minIdx]) minIdx = i - idxDiff; // Found new min
    if (nums[i - idxDiff] > nums[maxIdx]) maxIdx = i - idxDiff; // Found new max

    // We've seen a smaller value that satisfies the condition
    if (nums[i] - nums[minIdx] >= valDiff) return [minIdx, i];
    // We've seen a larger value that satisfies the condition
    if (nums[maxIdx] - nums[i] >= valDiff) return [maxIdx, i];
  }

  // No solution found
  return [-1, -1];
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |
