# [3627. Maximum Median Sum of Subsequences of Size 3](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-median-sum-of-subsequences-of-size-3)

## Description

You are given an integer array `nums` with a length divisible by 3.

You want to make the array empty in steps. In each step, you can select any three elements from the array, compute their **median**, and remove the selected elements from the array.

The **median** of an odd-length sequence is defined as the middle element of the sequence when it is sorted in non-decreasing order.

Return the **maximum** possible sum of the medians computed from the selected elements.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = \[2,1,3,2,1,3\]  
**Output:** 5  
**Explanation:**

- In the first step, select elements at indices 2, 4, and 5, which have a median 3. After removing these elements, `nums` becomes `[2, 1, 2]`.
- In the second step, select elements at indices 0, 1, and 2, which have a median 2. After removing these elements, `nums` becomes empty.

Hence, the sum of the medians is `3 + 2 = 5`.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = \[1,1,10,10,10,10\]  
**Output:** 20  
**Explanation:**

- In the first step, select elements at indices 0, 2, and 3, which have a median 10. After removing these elements, `nums` becomes `[1, 10, 10]`.
- In the second step, select elements at indices 0, 1, and 2, which have a median 10. After removing these elements, `nums` becomes empty.

Hence, the sum of the medians is `10 + 10 = 20`.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 5 * 10^5`
- `nums.length % 3 == 0`
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 10^9`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Approach: Sort nums. Starting at i = n / 3, select every 2nd element and add it to the result.
// This approach is essentially the same as below, but a little less explicit.
const maximumMedianSum = (nums) => {
  let result = 0;
  const sortedNums = nums.toSorted((a, b) => a - b);

  /* For an n-length array, there will be n / 3 groups of size three. Since the goal is
    to pair triplets in a way that maximizes median, we always want to pair each triplet with
    a minimum value, a maximum, and a second maximum. Thus, one minimum in each group will serve
    as a sacrifice of sorts; we include them in the triplet to eliminate them, as they do not help
    maximize the median and should never be used as the median. There will be n / 3 of these minimums. 
    Thus, we start iterating at  i = n / 3, avoiding ever selecting these minimums and thus having eliminated them 
    (since we are to remove each triplet after processing it). */
  for (let i = sortedNums.length / 3; i < sortedNums.length; i += 2) {
    result += sortedNums[i];
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N \* Log(N))  | O(N)             |

```js
// Approach: Sort nums and simulate process. Using unnecessary variables and logic to make the solution clear!
const maximumMedianSum = (nums) => {
  let result = 0;

  // Sort the numbers so we can easily retrieve the min and max values
  const sortedNums = nums.toSorted((a, b) => a - b);

  // Left and right pointers help us keep track of next set of min / max values
  // without having to manually remove elements from the array after each iteration
  let left = 0;
  let right = sortedNums.length - 1;

  while (left < right) {
    // Pick the smallest value
    const min = sortedNums[left];

    // Pick the two largest values
    const max1 = sortedNums[right];
    const max2 = sortedNums[right - 1];

    // The median is the 2nd max
    const median = max2;

    // Add this median to the result
    result += median;

    // Advance left pointer to point to remaining smallest value
    ++left;

    // Advance right pointer twice to point to remaining largest value
    right -= 2;
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N \* Log(N))  | O(N)             |
