# [3805. Count Caesar Cipher Pairs](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-caesar-cipher-pairs)

## Description

You are given an array `words` of `n` strings. Each string has length `m` and contains only lowercase English letters.

Two strings `s` and `t` are **similar** if we can apply the following operation any number of times (possibly zero times) so that `s` and `t` become **equal**.

- Choose either `s` or `t`.
- Replace **every** letter in the chosen string with the next letter in the alphabet cyclically. The next letter after `'z'` is `'a'`.

Count the number of pairs of indices `(i, j)` such that:

- `i < j`
- `words[i]` and `words[j]` are **similar**.

Return an integer denoting the number of such pairs.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** words = \["fusion","layout"\]  
**Output:** 1  
**Explanation:**  
`words[0] = "fusion"` and `words[1] = "layout"` are similar because we can apply the operation to `"fusion"` 6 times. The string `"fusion"` changes as follows.

- `"fusion"`
- `"gvtjpo"`
- `"hwukqp"`
- `"ixvlrq"`
- `"jywmsr"`
- `"kzxnts"`
- `"layout"`

**Example 2:**

**Input:** words = \["ab","aa","za","aa"\]  
**Output:** 2  
**Explanation:**  
`words[0] = "ab"` and `words[2] = "za"` are similar. `words[1] = "aa"` and `words[3] = "aa"` are similar.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= n == words.length <= 10^5`
- `1 <= m == words[i].length <= 10^5`
- `1 <= n * m <= 10^5`
- `words[i]` consists only of lowercase English letters.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const countPairs = (words) => {
  let result = 0;
  const map = new Map();

  for (const word of words) {
    const shift = word[0].charCodeAt(0);
    // Adding 97 ensures our chars range from 'a' to 'z'
    // We also add 26 to the shift to handle negative differences
    const pattern = [...word].map((c) => String.fromCharCode(97 + ((c.charCodeAt(0) - shift + 26) % 26))).join('');

    result += map.get(pattern) || 0;
    map.set(pattern, (map.get(pattern) || 0) + 1);
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity                | Space Complexity |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------- |
| O(N \* L), L = avg word length | O(N \* L)        |
