# [55. Jump Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/jump-game)

## Description

You are given an integer array `nums`. You are initially positioned at the array's **first index**, and each element in the array represents your maximum jump length at that position.

Return `true` _if you can reach the last index, or_ `false` _otherwise_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [2,3,1,1,4]  
**Output:** true  
**Explanation:** Jump 1 step from index 0 to 1, then 3 steps to the last index.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [3,2,1,0,4]  
**Output:** false  
**Explanation:** You will always arrive at index 3 no matter what. Its maximum jump length is 0, which makes it impossible to reach the last index.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 10^4`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 10^5`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const canJump = (nums) => {
  // Start by saying our current goal is the final position
  let currentGoal = nums.length - 1;

  // Iterate backwards, seeing if we can reach the current goal from this position
  // If we can, this position becomes our current goal.
  // If, in the end, our current goal is the first position, that means we are able to
  // fully jump from beginning to end.
  for (let i = nums.length - 2; i >= 0; --i) {
    // Can we reach current goal from this square?
    if (i + nums[i] >= currentGoal) currentGoal = i;
  }

  return currentGoal === 0;
};
```

```js
// Approach: The same as below (where we update our max reach each iteration).
// This one uses a more intuitive gas metaphor. We start our trip at the first gas station
// (index 0) with no gas. At each gas station we will fill up if it provides us with more gas
// than we currently have (we assume it has limited gas). This is like saying that if we can reach
// the current gas station, we can then reach at least the next station at an index of +gas away.
// If at any point we run out of gas, it means we cannot make it to the end.
const canJump = (nums) => {
  let gas = 0;

  for (let n of nums) {
    if (gas < 0) return false;
    if (n > gas) gas = n;
    gas--;
  }

  return true;
};
```

```js
const canJump = (nums) => {
  let i = 0;

  // For each number, see what the maximum index we can reach is
  // Keep updating the reach and see if we reached the end
  for (let reach = 0; i < nums.length && i <= reach; ++i) {
    reach = Math.max(reach, i + nums[i]);
  }

  return i === nums.length;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |
