# [57. Insert Interval](https://leetcode.com/problems/insert-interval)

## Description

You are given an array of non-overlapping intervals `intervals` where `intervals[i] = [starti, endi]` represent the start and the end of the `ith` interval and `intervals` is sorted in ascending order by `starti`. You are also given an interval `newInterval = [start, end]` that represents the start and end of another interval.

Insert `newInterval` into `intervals` such that `intervals` is still sorted in ascending order by `starti` and `intervals` still does not have any overlapping intervals (merge overlapping intervals if necessary).

Return `intervals` _after the insertion_.

**Note** that you don't need to modify `intervals` in-place. You can make a new array and return it.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** intervals = \[\[1,3\],\[6,9\]\], newInterval = \[2,5\]  
**Output:** \[\[1,5\],\[6,9\]\]

**Example 2:**

**Input:** intervals = \[\[1,2\],\[3,5\],\[6,7\],\[8,10\],\[12,16\]\], newInterval = \[4,8\]  
**Output:** \[\[1,2\],\[3,10\],\[12,16\]\]  
**Explanation:** Because the new interval \[4,8\] overlaps with \[3,5\],\[6,7\],\[8,10\].

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= intervals.length <= 10^4`
- `intervals[i].length == 2`
- `0 <= starti <= endi <= 10^5`
- `intervals` is sorted by `starti` in **ascending** order.
- `newInterval.length == 2`
- `0 <= start <= end <= 10^5`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const insert = (intervals, newInterval) => {
  const result = [];

  for (let i = 0; i < intervals.length; i++) {
    // Can new interval fit validly before current one?
    if (newInterval[1] < intervals[i][0]) {
      result.push(newInterval);
      return result.concat(intervals.slice(i));
    }
    // Can new interval fit validly after current one?
    else if (newInterval[0] > intervals[i][1]) {
      // Current interval belongs next (before new one)
      result.push(intervals[i]);
    }
    // Can't fit before or after -- it's overlapping!
    else {
      // We will not push the current interval. Rather, we merge the
      // current and new one by setting its start to the min start of the two
      // and its end to the max start of the two
      newInterval = [Math.min(newInterval[0], intervals[i][0]), Math.max(newInterval[1], intervals[i][1])];
      // However! It is NOT time to insert this interval, as it may still overlap the next interval(s)
    }
  }

  // At this point, we must have overlapped at least one interval and never found a valid place
  // before an existing interval. As such, we never pushed the new interval into the result array.
  result.push(newInterval);

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |
