# [80. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array II](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array-ii)

## Description

Given an integer array `nums` sorted in **non-decreasing order**, remove some duplicates [**in-place**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm) such that each unique element appears **at most twice**. The **relative order** of the elements should be kept the **same**.

Since it is impossible to change the length of the array in some languages, you must instead have the result be placed in the **first part** of the array `nums`. More formally, if there are `k` elements after removing the duplicates, then the first `k` elements of `nums` should hold the final result. It does not matter what you leave beyond the first `k` elements.

Return `k` _after placing the final result in the first_ `k` _slots of_ `nums`.

Do **not** allocate extra space for another array. You must do this by **modifying the input array [in-place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm)** with O(1) extra memory.

**Custom Judge:**

The judge will test your solution with the following code:

```
int[] nums = [...]; // Input array
int[] expectedNums = [...]; // The expected answer with correct length

int k = removeDuplicates(nums); // Calls your implementation

assert k == expectedNums.length;
for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
    assert nums[i] == expectedNums[i];
}
```

If all assertions pass, then your solution will be **accepted**.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [1,1,1,2,2,3]  
**Output:** 5, nums = [1,1,2,2,3,_]  
**Explanation:** Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 1, 1, 2, 2 and 3 respectively.  
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]  
**Output:** 7, nums = [0,0,1,1,2,3,3,_,_]  
**Explanation:** Your function should return k = 7, with the first seven elements of nums being 0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3 and 3 respectively.  
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 3 * 10^4`
- `-10^4 <= nums[i] <= 10^4`
- `nums` is sorted in **non-decreasing** order.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const removeDuplicates = (nums) => {
  // i will keep track of where the next kept num will be stored
  let i = 0;

  for (let num of nums) {
    // For the first two numbers, we always update nums[i]
    // We also update if this num is larger than the one two elements ago
    // A num that is not > nums[i - 2] must mean it is the 2nd+ duplicate, and
    // thus should be ignored. By ignoring it, it gets overwritten by the next
    // number that's to be kept
    if (i < 2 || num > nums[i - 2]) {
      nums[i] = num;
      i++;
    }
  }

  // Happily, i at this point will also represent the length of the kept nums
  return i;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |
