# [841. Keys and Rooms](https://leetcode.com/problems/keys-and-rooms)

## Description

There are `n` rooms labeled from `0` to `n - 1` and all the rooms are locked except for room `0`. Your goal is to visit all the rooms. However, you cannot enter a locked room without having its key.

When you visit a room, you may find a set of **distinct keys** in it. Each key has a number on it, denoting which room it unlocks, and you can take all of them with you to unlock the other rooms.

Given an array `rooms` where `rooms[i]` is the set of keys that you can obtain if you visited room `i`, return `true` _if you can visit **all** the rooms, or_ `false` _otherwise_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** rooms = \[\[1\],\[2\],\[3\],\[\]\]  
**Output:** true  
**Explanation:**  
We visit room 0 and pick up key 1.  
We then visit room 1 and pick up key 2.  
We then visit room 2 and pick up key 3.  
We then visit room 3.  
Since we were able to visit every room, we return true.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** rooms = \[\[1,3\],\[3,0,1\],\[2\],\[0\]\]  
**Output:** false  
**Explanation:** We can not enter room number 2 since the only key that unlocks it is in that room.

**Constraints:**

- `n == rooms.length`
- `2 <= n <= 1000`
- `0 <= rooms[i].length <= 1000`
- `1 <= sum(rooms[i].length) <= 3000`
- `0 <= rooms[i][j] < n`
- All the values of `rooms[i]` are **unique**.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Time Complexity: O(N + K), where N is the number of rooms and K is the number of keys.
const canVisitAllRooms = (rooms) => {
  // Start with the key to room 0
  const stack = [0];

  // Keep track of which keys we have seen, starting with the one to room 0
  const seen = new Set(stack);

  while (stack.length) {
    // Use the top-most room key
    const roomNumber = stack.pop();

    // Visit each new key found within the room we just unlocked
    for (let key of rooms[roomNumber]) {
      // If we haven't seen this key before...
      if (!seen.has(key)) {
        // Pick it up!
        stack.push(key);

        // And mark it as seen
        seen.add(key);

        // Finally, check if we've seen every key early
        if (rooms.length === seen.size) return true;
      }
    }
  }

  // We exausted all keys; did we end up encountering all them?
  return rooms.length === seen.size;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N + K)        | O(N)             |
