# [1021. Remove Outermost Parentheses](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-outermost-parentheses)

## Description

A valid parentheses string is either empty `""`, `"(" + A + ")"`, or `A + B`, where `A` and `B` are valid parentheses strings, and `+` represents string concatenation.

- For example, `""`, `"()"`, `"(())()"`, and `"(()(()))"` are all valid parentheses strings.

A valid parentheses string `s` is primitive if it is nonempty, and there does not exist a way to split it into `s = A + B`, with `A` and `B` nonempty valid parentheses strings.

Given a valid parentheses string `s`, consider its primitive decomposition: `s = P1 + P2 + ... + Pk`, where `Pi` are primitive valid parentheses strings.

Return `s` _after removing the outermost parentheses of every primitive string in the primitive decomposition of_ `s`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "(()())(())"  
**Output:** "()()()"  
**Explanation:**  
The input string is "(()())(())", with primitive decomposition "(()())" + "(())".  
After removing outer parentheses of each part, this is "()()" + "()" = "()()()".

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "(()())(())(()(()))"  
**Output:** "()()()()(())"  
**Explanation:**  
The input string is "(()())(())(()(()))", with primitive decomposition "(()())" + "(())" + "(()(()))".  
After removing outer parentheses of each part, this is "()()" + "()" + "()(())" = "()()()()(())".

**Example 3:**

**Input:** s = "()()"  
**Output:** ""  
**Explanation:**  
The input string is "()()", with primitive decomposition "()" + "()".  
After removing outer parentheses of each part, this is "" + "" = "".

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 10^5`
- `s[i]` is either `'('` or `')'`.
- `s` is a valid parentheses string.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
/*
Approach: Iterate over every character, adding them to the result string UNLESS
they are the first opening paren or last closing parenthesis.
*/
const removeOuterParentheses = (s) => {
  let result = '';
  let numOpened = 0;

  for (let char of s) {
    if (char === '(' && numOpened++ > 0) result += char;
    if (char === ')' && numOpened-- > 1) result += char;
  }

  return result;
};
```

```js
const removeOuterParentheses = (s) => {
  let result = '';
  let balance = 0; // Keeps track of balance of parentheses. 0 is balanced, > 0 means more openings than closings

  for (let char of s) {
    if (char === '(') {
      // If balance is greater than 0, this '(' is not an outermost parenthesis
      if (balance > 0) result += char;
      // Increase the balance (number of '(')
      ++balance;
    } else {
      // Decrease the balance (number of ')')
      --balance;
      // If balance is greater than 0, it means this ')' is not an outermost parenthesis
      if (balance > 0) result += char;
    }
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |
