# [1103. Distribute Candies to People](https://leetcode.com/problems/distribute-candies-to-people)

## Description

We distribute some number of `candies`, to a row of **`n = num_people`** people in the following way:

We then give 1 candy to the first person, 2 candies to the second person, and so on until we give `n` candies to the last person.

Then, we go back to the start of the row, giving `n + 1` candies to the first person, `n + 2` candies to the second person, and so on until we give `2 * n` candies to the last person.

This process repeats (with us giving one more candy each time, and moving to the start of the row after we reach the end) until we run out of candies.  The last person will receive all of our remaining candies (not necessarily one more than the previous gift).

Return an array (of length `num_people` and sum `candies`) that represents the final distribution of candies.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** candies = 7, num_people = 4  
**Output:** \[1,2,3,1\]  
**Explanation:**  
On the first turn, ans\[0\] += 1, and the array is \[1,0,0,0\].  
On the second turn, ans\[1\] += 2, and the array is \[1,2,0,0\].  
On the third turn, ans\[2\] += 3, and the array is \[1,2,3,0\].  
On the fourth turn, ans\[3\] += 1 (because there is only one candy left), and the final array is \[1,2,3,1\].

**Example 2:**

**Input:** candies = 10, num_people = 3  
**Output:** \[5,2,3\]  
**Explanation:**  
On the first turn, ans\[0\] += 1, and the array is \[1,0,0\].  
On the second turn, ans\[1\] += 2, and the array is \[1,2,0\].  
On the third turn, ans\[2\] += 3, and the array is \[1,2,3\].  
On the fourth turn, ans\[0\] += 4, and the final array is \[5,2,3\].

**Constraints:**

- 1 <= candies <= 10^9
- 1 <= num_people <= 1000

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Approach: Using math
const distributeCandies = (candies, numPeople) => {
  let x = Math.floor(Math.sqrt(candies * 2 + 0.25) - 0.5);
  const result = Array(numPeople).fill(0);

  for (let i = 0; i < numPeople; ++i) {
    let m = Math.floor(x / numPeople + (x % numPeople > i));
    result[i] = Math.floor(m * (i + 1) + ((m * (m - 1)) / 2) * numPeople);
  }

  result[x % numPeople] += candies - (x * (x + 1)) / 2;

  return result;
};
```

```js
/* Approach: Give i + 1 candies to the (i % n)th person. Increase i after each person.
By using the modulo operator we ensure we continue re-looping through each person if required.
We use Math.min for cases where we do not have enough remaining candy for
the last person.
*/
const distributeCandies = (candies, numPeople) => {
  const result = Array(numPeople).fill(0);
  let give = 0;

  while (candies > 0) {
    result[give % numPeople] += Math.min(candies, give + 1);
    give++;
    candies -= give;
  }

  return result;
};
```

```js
/* Approach: Same as above, but we eliminate the need to use Math.min.
We do this by giving the last person who was given candy an amount equal to the candy remaining.
In this situation, the remaining candy was either 0 or a negative amount, so we are essentially taking
back the surplus candy, as necessary.
*/
const distributeCandies = (candies, numPeople) => {
  const result = Array(numPeople).fill(0);
  let give = 0;

  while (candies > 0) {
    result[give % numPeople] += give + 1;
    give++;
    candies -= give;
  }

  result[(give - 1) % numPeople] += candies;
  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |
