# [13. Roman to Integer](https://leetcode.com/problems/roman-to-integer)

## Description

Roman numerals are represented by seven different symbols: `I`, `V`, `X`, `L`, `C`, `D` and `M`.

**Symbol** **Value**
I 1
V 5
X 10
L 50
C 100
D 500
M 1000

For example, `2` is written as `II` in Roman numeral, just two ones added together. `12` is written as `XII`, which is simply `X + II`. The number `27` is written as `XXVII`, which is `XX + V + II`.

Roman numerals are usually written largest to smallest from left to right. However, the numeral for four is not `IIII`. Instead, the number four is written as `IV`. Because the one is before the five we subtract it making four. The same principle applies to the number nine, which is written as `IX`. There are six instances where subtraction is used:

- `I` can be placed before `V` (5) and `X` (10) to make 4 and 9.
- `X` can be placed before `L` (50) and `C` (100) to make 40 and 90.
- `C` can be placed before `D` (500) and `M` (1000) to make 400 and 900.

Given a roman numeral, convert it to an integer.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "III"  
**Output:** 3  
**Explanation:** III = 3.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "LVIII"  
**Output:** 58  
**Explanation:** L = 50, V= 5, III = 3.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** s = "MCMXCIV"  
**Output:** 1994  
**Explanation:** M = 1000, CM = 900, XC = 90 and IV = 4.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 15`
- `s` contains only the characters `('I', 'V', 'X', 'L', 'C', 'D', 'M')`.
- It is **guaranteed** that `s` is a valid roman numeral in the range `[1, 3999]`.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const romanToInt = (s) => {
  // If we iterate from front too back, we can add the contribution of each
  // roman numeral to the total sum. Any time we encounter a numeral that is
  // less than the next one, that means we encounter a compound
  // numeral. In this case, we must SUBTRACT that amount from the sum. When we encounter
  // the 2nd part of the compound, we add it. This combination gives us the correct value.
  // Take IV, for example. We encounter the I and note that V (a greater value) is after it.
  // So we subtract I (1) from the total. We then visit the V and add it (5). This combination
  // of -1 + 5 gives us 4, which is what IV represents.
  let result = 0;
  const map = { I: 1, V: 5, X: 10, L: 50, C: 100, D: 500, M: 1_000 };

  for (let i = 0; i < s.length; ++i) {
    const value = map[s[i]];
    const nextValue = map[s[i + 1]];
    if (nextValue > value) result -= value;
    else result += value;
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |
