# [1370. Increasing Decreasing String](https://leetcode.com/problems/increasing-decreasing-string)

## Description

You are given a string `s`. Reorder the string using the following algorithm:

1.  Remove the **smallest** character from `s` and **append** it to the result.
2.  Remove the **smallest** character from `s` that is greater than the last appended character, and **append** it to the result.
3.  Repeat step 2 until no more characters can be removed.
4.  Remove the **largest** character from `s` and **append** it to the result.
5.  Remove the **largest** character from `s` that is smaller than the last appended character, and **append** it to the result.
6.  Repeat step 5 until no more characters can be removed.
7.  Repeat steps 1 through 6 until all characters from `s` have been removed.

If the smallest or largest character appears more than once, you may choose any occurrence to append to the result.

Return the resulting string after reordering `s` using this algorithm.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "aaaabbbbcccc"  
**Output:** "abccbaabccba"  
**Explanation:** After steps 1, 2 and 3 of the first iteration, result = "abc"  
After steps 4, 5 and 6 of the first iteration, result = "abccba"  
First iteration is done. Now s = "aabbcc" and we go back to step 1  
After steps 1, 2 and 3 of the second iteration, result = "abccbaabc"  
After steps 4, 5 and 6 of the second iteration, result = "abccbaabccba"

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "rat"  
**Output:** "art"  
**Explanation:** The word "rat" becomes "art" after re-ordering it with the mentioned algorithm.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 500`
- `s` consists of only lowercase English letters.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const sortString = (s) => {
  let result = '';
  const count = Array(26).fill(0);

  // Get the frequency of each character
  for (let char of s) {
    ++count[char.charCodeAt() - 97];
  }

  while (s.length !== result.length) {
    // Perform steps 1-3
    for (let i = 0; i < 26; ++i) {
      // Starting with 'a' and going to 'z', add that char to result if
      // it is still present in the string. Decrement the count of that letter
      result += --count[i] >= 0 ? String.fromCharCode(97 + i) : '';
    }

    // Perform steps 4-6
    for (let i = 25; i >= 0; --i) {
      // Starting with 'z' and going to 'a', add that char to result if
      // it is still present in the string. Decrement the count of that letter
      result += --count[i] >= 0 ? String.fromCharCode(97 + i) : '';
    }
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |
