# [1475. Final Prices With a Special Discount in a Shop](https://leetcode.com/problems/final-prices-with-a-special-discount-in-a-shop)

## Description

You are given an integer array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of the `ith` item in a shop.

There is a special discount for items in the shop. If you buy the `ith` item, then you will receive a discount equivalent to `prices[j]` where `j` is the minimum index such that `j > i` and `prices[j] <= prices[i]`. Otherwise, you will not receive any discount at all.

Return an integer array `answer` where `answer[i]` is the final price you will pay for the `ith` item of the shop, considering the special discount.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** prices = \[8,4,6,2,3\]  
**Output:** \[4,2,4,2,3\]  
**Explanation:**  
For item 0 with price\[0\]=8 you will receive a discount equivalent to prices\[1\]=4, therefore, the final price you will pay is 8 - 4 = 4.  
For item 1 with price\[1\]=4 you will receive a discount equivalent to prices\[3\]=2, therefore, the final price you will pay is 4 - 2 = 2.  
For item 2 with price\[2\]=6 you will receive a discount equivalent to prices\[3\]=2, therefore, the final price you will pay is 6 - 2 = 4.  
For items 3 and 4 you will not receive any discount at all.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** prices = \[1,2,3,4,5\]  
**Output:** \[1,2,3,4,5\]  
**Explanation:** In this case, for all items, you will not receive any discount at all.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** prices = \[10,1,1,6\]  
**Output:** \[9,0,1,6\]

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= prices.length <= 500`
- `1 <= prices[i] <= 1000`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Approach: Monotonic Increasing Stack
const finalPrices = (prices) => {
  // When no lower future price is found, we receive no discount
  // That means we should prefill the result array to be the same as prices array
  const result = Array.from(prices);

  // Find the next lowest price, subtract from current
  // I.e our stack will be monotonically INCREASING
  const stack = [];

  for (let i = 0; i < prices.length; i++) {
    // While the top of our stack contains higher prices
    while (stack.length && prices[stack.at(-1)] >= prices[i]) {
      // The discount the item in the stack should receive is equal to the current price
      // So subtract this from that item's base price
      result[stack.at(-1)] -= prices[i];

      // And remove the top item from the stack, as it has been dealt with
      stack.pop();
    }

    // By this point all higher priced items on the stack have been given their discount
    // Now we must push this price to the stack and eventually attempt to do the same
    stack.push(i);
  }

  return result;
};
```

```js
// Approach: Same as the above, but the stack stores [value, index] pairs.
// In the above solution we can see a fairly easy way to avoid this.
const finalPrices = (prices) => {
  const stack = [];
  const result = Array.from(prices);

  for (let i = 0; i < prices.length; i++) {
    const discount = prices[i];

    while (stack.length && stack.at(-1)[0] >= discount) {
      const [price, index] = stack.pop();
      result[index] = price - (discount || 0);
    }

    stack.push([discount, i]);
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |
