# [1700. Number of Students Unable to Eat Lunch](https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-students-unable-to-eat-lunch)

## Description

The school cafeteria offers circular and square sandwiches at lunch break, referred to by numbers `0` and `1` respectively. All students stand in a queue. Each student either prefers square or circular sandwiches.

The number of sandwiches in the cafeteria is equal to the number of students. The sandwiches are placed in a **stack**. At each step:

- If the student at the front of the queue **prefers** the sandwich on the top of the stack, they will **take it** and leave the queue.
- Otherwise, they will **leave it** and go to the queue's end.

This continues until none of the queue students want to take the top sandwich and are thus unable to eat.

You are given two integer arrays `students` and `sandwiches` where `sandwiches[i]` is the type of the `i​​​​​​th` sandwich in the stack (`i = 0` is the top of the stack) and `students[j]` is the preference of the `j​​​​​​th` student in the initial queue (`j = 0` is the front of the queue). Return _the number of students that are unable to eat._

**Example 1:**

**Input:** students = \[1,1,0,0\], sandwiches = \[0,1,0,1\]  
**Output:** 0  
**Explanation:**

- Front student leaves the top sandwich and returns to the end of the line making students = \[1,0,0,1\].
- Front student leaves the top sandwich and returns to the end of the line making students = \[0,0,1,1\].
- Front student takes the top sandwich and leaves the line making students = \[0,1,1\] and sandwiches = \[1,0,1\].
- Front student leaves the top sandwich and returns to the end of the line making students = \[1,1,0\].
- Front student takes the top sandwich and leaves the line making students = \[1,0\] and sandwiches = \[0,1\].
- Front student leaves the top sandwich and returns to the end of the line making students = \[0,1\].
- Front student takes the top sandwich and leaves the line making students = \[1\] and sandwiches = \[1\].
- Front student takes the top sandwich and leaves the line making students = \[\] and sandwiches = \[\].  
  Hence all students are able to eat.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** students = \[1,1,1,0,0,1\], sandwiches = \[1,0,0,0,1,1\]  
**Output:** 3

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= students.length, sandwiches.length <= 100`
- `students.length == sandwiches.length`
- `sandwiches[i]` is `0` or `1`.
- `students[i]` is `0` or `1`.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const countStudents = (students, sandwiches) => {
  const count = [0, 0];
  let k = 0;

  for (let student of students) {
    ++count[student];
  }

  for (k = 0; k < students.length && count[sandwiches[k]] > 0; ++k) {
    --count[sandwiches[k]];
  }

  return students.length - k;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |

```js
// Approach: Simply keep track of how many of each type of sandwiches are required.
// Also keep track of how many of the top sandwiches have been served.
// When we encounter a sandwich on top that has no count left, exit the loop.
// The number of unserved students is equal to student count - number of served sandwiches.
const countStudents = (students, sandwiches) => {
  const counts = students.reduce((acc, cur) => (acc[cur]++, acc), [0, 0]);
  let remaining = students.length;

  for (let sandwich of sandwiches) {
    if (counts[sandwich] === 0) break;
    if (remaining === 0) break;
    --remaining;
    --counts[sandwich];
  }

  return remaining;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |

```js
// Approach: Simply keep track of how many of each type of sandwiches are required.
// Also keep track of how many of the top sandwiches have been served.
// When we encounter a sandwich on top that has no count left, exit the loop.
// The number of unserved students is equal to student count - number of served sandwiches.
const countStudents = (students, sandwiches) => {
  const count = students.reduce((acc, cur) => (acc[cur]++, acc), [0, 0]);
  let numServed = 0;

  while (numServed < students.length && count[sandwiches[numServed]] > 0) {
    --count[sandwiches[numServed]];
    ++numServed;
  }

  return students.length - numServed;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |

```js
// Approach: Brute-Force to simulate the process
const countStudents = (students, sandwiches) => {
  const studentQueue = [...students]; // Don't mutate input array
  let rotations = 0; // Keep track of how many students passed up current sandwich
  let i = 0; // This will keep track of the current (top) sandwich

  // Iterate until there are no more students queued OR we have rotated through
  // all remaining students without finding any who want the sandwich at the top stack
  while (studentQueue.length && rotations < studentQueue.length) {
    const student = studentQueue.pop();

    if (student === sandwiches[i]) {
      // The front student wants this sandwich!
      ++i; // Move on to the next sandwich
      rotations = 0; // Reset rotations
    } else {
      // The front student did not want this sandwich...
      studentQueue.unshift(student); // This time send student to the back of the queue
      ++rotations; // And this time a rotation was necessary, so increment it
    }
  }

  // If we reached here we either gave every student a sandwich or completed a full rotation
  // where no student wanted the top sandwich. Either way, return the length of the student queue
  return studentQueue.length;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |
