# [1854. Maximum Population Year](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-population-year)

## Description

You are given a 2D integer array `logs` where each `logs[i] = [birthi, deathi]` indicates the birth and death years of the `ith` person.

The **population** of some year `x` is the number of people alive during that year. The `ith` person is counted in year `x`'s population if `x` is in the **inclusive** range `[birthi, deathi - 1]`. Note that the person is **not** counted in the year that they die.

Return _the **earliest** year with the **maximum population**_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** logs = [[1993,1999],[2000,2010]]
**Output:** 1993
**Explanation:** The maximum population is 1, and 1993 is the earliest year with this population.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** logs = [[1950,1961],[1960,1971],[1970,1981]]
**Output:** 1960
**Explanation:**
The maximum population is 2, and it had happened in years 1960 and 1970.
The earlier year between them is 1960.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= logs.length <= 100`
- `1950 <= birthi < deathi <= 2050`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const maximumPopulation = (logs) => {
  let arr = Array(101).fill(0);

  for (let [birth, death] of logs) {
    arr[birth - 1950]++;
    arr[death - 1950]--;
  }

  let maxPopulation = 0;
  let year = 0;
  let population = 0;

  for (let i = 0; i < arr.length; ++i) {
    population += arr[i];
    if (population > maxPopulation) {
      maxPopulation = population;
      year = i;
    }
  }

  return year + 1950;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |

```js
/*
Approach: We note the constraints, where birth years are > 1950 and death years
are < 2050. This is a 101 year range, so we can initialize an array of this size, where
arr[i] represents the population at year i. But this would give a year of 0 to 100, so we 
add 1950 to get the range [1950, 2050].

For each log, we iterate from the birth year until death year - 1 (exclude year of death).
For each of these years, this person was alive -- so we increment the population at each of these
years by 1.

Finally, we iterate through our calculated population array and keep track of the one with the highest
population, prioritizing earlier years in the case of ties.
*/
const maximumPopulation = (logs) => {
  const populationAtYear = Array(101).fill(0);

  for (let [birth, death] of logs) {
    for (let i = birth; i < death; ++i) {
      populationAtYear[i - 1950]++;
    }
  }

  let maxPopulation = 0;
  let maxYear = 0;

  for (let i = 0; i < populationAtYear.length; ++i) {
    if (maxPopulation < populationAtYear[i]) {
      maxPopulation = populationAtYear[i];
      maxYear = i;
    }
  }

  return maxYear + 1950;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |

```js
const maximumPopulation = (logs) => {
  const years = {}; // { year: population }

  // Add every birth and death year to a map, initializing its population to 0
  for (let [yearA, yearB] of logs) {
    years[yearA] = 0;
    years[yearB] = 0;
  }

  for (let year of Object.keys(years)) {
    // How many people in logs were alive during this year?
    for (let [birthYear, deathYear] of logs) {
      const wasAlive = birthYear <= +year && deathYear > +year;
      years[year] += wasAlive;
    }
  }

  let maxPopulation = 0;
  let maxYear = 0;

  for (let [year, population] of Object.entries(years)) {
    if (population > maxPopulation || (population > maxPopulation && year < maxYear)) {
      maxPopulation = population;
      maxYear = year;
    }
  }

  return +maxYear;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N^2)          | O(N)             |
