# [2062. Count Vowel Substrings of a String](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-vowel-substrings-of-a-string)

## Description

A **substring** is a contiguous (non-empty) sequence of characters within a string.

A **vowel substring** is a substring that **only** consists of vowels (`'a'`, `'e'`, `'i'`, `'o'`, and `'u'`) and has **all five** vowels present in it.

Given a string `word`, return _the number of **vowel substrings** in_ `word`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** word = "aeiouu"  
**Output:** 2  
**Explanation:** The vowel substrings of word are as follows (underlined):

- "**aeiou**u"
- "**aeiouu**"

**Example 2:**

**Input:** word = "unicornarihan"  
**Output:** 0  
**Explanation:** Not all 5 vowels are present, so there are no vowel substrings.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** word = "cuaieuouac"  
**Output:** 7  
**Explanation:** The vowel substrings of word are as follows (underlined):

- "c**uaieuo**uac"
- "c**uaieuou**ac"
- "c**uaieuoua**c"
- "cu**aieuo**uac"
- "cu**aieuou**ac"
- "cu**aieuoua**c"
- "cua**ieuoua**c"

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= word.length <= 100`
- `word` consists of lowercase English letters only.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const countVowelSubstrings = (word) => {
  let result = 0;
  let lastConsonant = -1; // Index we last saw a consonant
  const vowels = new Set(['a', 'e', 'i', 'o', 'u']);
  const lastSeenVowels = {};

  // Initialize the index that we saw all 5 vowels to as -1 (i.e not seen yet)
  for (const v of vowels) lastSeenVowels[v] = -1;

  for (let i = 0; i < word.length; i++) {
    if (vowels.has(word[i])) {
      // If this char is a vowel, note what index we saw it at
      lastSeenVowels[word[i]] = i;

      // Find the minimum index in our set of last seen vowels, and from that subtract
      // the index we saw our last consonant at. We ensure this value is not negative.
      // Finally, we increment our result by this amount. At each index, the number of valid
      // substrings ending here is the distance backward from the earliest seen vowel to the
      // last seen consonant, hence our result incrementing logic.
      result += Math.max(Math.min(...Object.values(lastSeenVowels)) - lastConsonant, 0);
    } else lastConsonant = i; // This char is a consonant, mark its index
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |
