# [2073. Time Needed to Buy Tickets](https://leetcode.com/problems/time-needed-to-buy-tickets)

## Description

There are `n` people in a line queuing to buy tickets, where the `0th` person is at the **front** of the line and the `(n - 1)th` person is at the **back** of the line.

You are given a **0-indexed** integer array `tickets` of length `n` where the number of tickets that the `ith` person would like to buy is `tickets[i]`.

Each person takes **exactly 1 second** to buy a ticket. A person can only buy **1 ticket at a time** and has to go back to **the end** of the line (which happens **instantaneously**) in order to buy more tickets. If a person does not have any tickets left to buy, the person will **leave** the line.

Return the **time taken** for the person **initially** at position **k** (0-indexed) to finish buying tickets.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** tickets = [2,3,2], k = 2

**Output:** 6

**Explanation:**

- The queue starts as [2,3,2], where the kth person is underlined.
- After the person at the front has bought a ticket, the queue becomes [3,2,1] at 1 second.
- Continuing this process, the queue becomes [2,1,2] at 2 seconds.
- Continuing this process, the queue becomes [1,2,1] at 3 seconds.
- Continuing this process, the queue becomes [2,1] at 4 seconds. Note: the person at the front left the queue.
- Continuing this process, the queue becomes [1,1] at 5 seconds.
- Continuing this process, the queue becomes [1] at 6 seconds. The kth person has bought all their tickets, so return 6.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** tickets = [5,1,1,1], k = 0

**Output:** 8

**Explanation:**

- The queue starts as [5,1,1,1], where the kth person is underlined.
- After the person at the front has bought a ticket, the queue becomes [1,1,1,4] at 1 second.
- Continuing this process for 3 seconds, the queue becomes [4] at 4 seconds.
- Continuing this process for 4 seconds, the queue becomes [] at 8 seconds. The kth person has bought all their tickets, so return 8.

**Constraints:**

- `n == tickets.length`
- `1 <= n <= 100`
- `1 <= tickets[i] <= 100`
- `0 <= k < n`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const timeRequiredToBuy = (tickets, k) => {
  let result = 0;

  for (let i = 0; i < tickets.length; i++) {
    // Every person before and including k...
    // tickets[i] contributes min(tickets[i], tickets[k])
    if (i <= k) result += Math.min(tickets[i], tickets[k]);
    // Every person after k...
    // tickets[i] contributes min(tickets[i], tickets[k] - 1)
    // This is because if tickets[k] is the min, we will have finished our place in line
    // before these people, so we are negating their contribution
    else result += Math.min(tickets[i], tickets[k] - 1);
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |

```js
const timeRequiredToBuy = (tickets, k) => {
  let time = 0;

  while (true) {
    for (let i = 0; i < tickets.length; i++) {
      if (tickets[k] === 0) return time;
      if (tickets[i] === 0) continue; // Not required, but makes logic more understandable
      if (tickets[i] >= 1) {
        tickets[i]--;
        time++;
      }
    }
  }
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N^2)          | O(1)             |
