# [21129. Capitalize the Title](https://leetcode.com/problems/capitalize-the-title)

## Description

You are given a string `title` consisting of one or more words separated by a single space, where each word consists of English letters. **Capitalize** the string by changing the capitalization of each word such that:

- If the length of the word is `1` or `2` letters, change all letters to lowercase.
- Otherwise, change the first letter to uppercase and the remaining letters to lowercase.

Return _the **capitalized**_ `title`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** title = "capiTalIze tHe titLe"  
**Output:** "Capitalize The Title"  
**Explanation:**  
Since all the words have a length of at least 3, the first letter of each word is uppercase, and the remaining letters are lowercase.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** title = "First leTTeR of EACH Word"  
**Output:** "First Letter of Each Word"  
**Explanation:**  
The word "of" has length 2, so it is all lowercase.  
The remaining words have a length of at least 3, so the first letter of each remaining word is uppercase, and the remaining letters are lowercase.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** title = "i lOve leetcode"  
**Output:** "i Love Leetcode"  
**Explanation:**  
The word "i" has length 1, so it is lowercase.  
The remaining words have a length of at least 3, so the first letter of each remaining word is uppercase, and the remaining letters are lowercase.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= title.length <= 100`
- `title` consists of words separated by a single space without any leading or trailing spaces.
- Each word consists of uppercase and lowercase English letters and is **non-empty**.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Approach: Two Pointers
const capitalizeTitle = (title) => {
  const result = [...title];

  for (let wordEnd = 0, wordStart = 0; wordEnd <= title.length; ++wordEnd) {
    if (wordEnd === title.length || title[wordEnd] === ' ') {
      if (wordEnd - wordStart > 2) result[wordStart] = result[wordStart].toUpperCase();
      wordStart = wordEnd + 1;
    } else result[wordEnd] = result[wordEnd].toLowerCase();
  }

  return result.join('');
};
```

```js
// Approach: Built-in methods
const capitalizeTitle = (title) =>
  title
    .split(' ')
    .map((word) => (word.length < 3 ? word.toLowerCase() : word[0].toUpperCase() + word.slice(1).toLowerCase()))
    .join(' ');
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |
