# [2335. Minimum Amount of Time to Fill Cups](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-amount-of-time-to-fill-cups)

## Description

You have a water dispenser that can dispense cold, warm, and hot water. Every second, you can either fill up `2` cups with **different** types of water, or `1` cup of any type of water.

You are given a **0-indexed** integer array `amount` of length `3` where `amount[0]`, `amount[1]`, and `amount[2]` denote the number of cold, warm, and hot water cups you need to fill respectively. Return _the **minimum** number of seconds needed to fill up all the cups_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** amount = \[1,4,2\]  
**Output:** 4  
**Explanation:** One way to fill up the cups is:  
Second 1: Fill up a cold cup and a warm cup.  
Second 2: Fill up a warm cup and a hot cup.  
Second 3: Fill up a warm cup and a hot cup.  
Second 4: Fill up a warm cup.  
It can be proven that 4 is the minimum number of seconds needed.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** amount = \[5,4,4\]  
**Output:** 7  
**Explanation:** One way to fill up the cups is:  
Second 1: Fill up a cold cup, and a hot cup.  
Second 2: Fill up a cold cup, and a warm cup.  
Second 3: Fill up a cold cup, and a warm cup.  
Second 4: Fill up a warm cup, and a hot cup.  
Second 5: Fill up a cold cup, and a hot cup.  
Second 6: Fill up a cold cup, and a warm cup.  
Second 7: Fill up a hot cup.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** amount = \[5,0,0\]  
**Output:** 5  
**Explanation:** Every second, we fill up a cold cup.

**Constraints:**

- `amount.length == 3`
- `0 <= amount[i] <= 100`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
/*
Approach: We note that we can only reduce 1 type of each cup at a time. So the final result
must be >= Max(amount). We also note that we can fill up too 2 cups each time, so the final result
must be >= Ceil(Sum(amount) / 2)
*/
const fillCups = (amount) => {
  let max = 0;
  let sum = 0;

  for (let n of amount) {
    max = Math.max(max, n);
    sum += n;
  }

  return Math.max(max, Math.ceil(sum / 2));
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(1)            | O(1)             |

```js
const fillCups = (amount) => {
  const sortedAmount = amount.sort((a, b) => a - b);

  // If both the other cups are less than maximum cup, the time taken by
  // maximum cups to fill because by that time we filled the other two cups
  if (amount[0] + amount[1] <= amount[2]) return amount[2];

  // Otherwise if sum of both the lesser cups are greater than maximum, the maximum is exhausted first.
  // So the time taken to fill all the cups is sum of other two cups minus their difference and divided by two because we're filling two cups at a time.
  // return (amount[0]+amount[1])-(amount[0]+amount[1]-amount[2])//2
  return Math.ceil((amount[0] + amount[1] + amount[2]) / 2);
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N \* Log(N))  | O(N)             |
