# [2341. Maximum Number of Pairs in Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-number-of-pairs-in-array)

## Description

You are given a **0-indexed** integer array `nums`. In one operation, you may do the following:

- Choose **two** integers in `nums` that are **equal**.
- Remove both integers from `nums`, forming a **pair**.

The operation is done on `nums` as many times as possible.

Return _a **0-indexed** integer array_ `answer` _of size_ `2` _where_ `answer[0]` _is the number of pairs that are formed and_ `answer[1]` _is the number of leftover integers in_ `nums` _after doing the operation as many times as possible_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = \[1,3,2,1,3,2,2\]  
**Output:** \[3,1\]  
**Explanation:**  
Form a pair with nums\[0\] and nums\[3\] and remove them from nums. Now, nums = \[3,2,3,2,2\].  
Form a pair with nums\[0\] and nums\[2\] and remove them from nums. Now, nums = \[2,2,2\].  
Form a pair with nums\[0\] and nums\[1\] and remove them from nums. Now, nums = \[2\].  
No more pairs can be formed. A total of 3 pairs have been formed, and there is 1 number leftover in nums.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = \[1,1\]  
**Output:** \[1,0\]  
**Explanation:** Form a pair with nums\[0\] and nums\[1\] and remove them from nums. Now, nums = \[\].  
No more pairs can be formed. A total of 1 pair has been formed, and there are 0 numbers leftover in nums.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** nums = \[0\]  
**Output:** \[0,1\]  
**Explanation:** No pairs can be formed, and there is 1 number leftover in nums.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 100`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 100`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Approach: Single pass using fixed-size array
const numberOfPairs = (nums) => {
  // We are told the input array's values range from 1 to 100
  const counts = Array(101).fill(0);

  // A rolling count of the number of pairs found
  let numPairs = 0;

  for (let n of nums) {
    // Increment number of pairs by 1 every time a count reaches a multiple of 2
    numPairs += ++counts[n] % 2 === 0;
  }

  // We have the number of pairs. The amount of numbers leftover can be found using simple math
  return [numPairs, nums.length - numPairs * 2];
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |

```js
// Approach: Two passes, one to determine the frequency of each number,
// another to calculate the number of pairs formed / remaining based on that count.
const numberOfPairs = (nums) => {
  const result = [0, 0];
  const counts = nums.reduce((acc, cur) => ((acc[cur] = acc[cur] + 1 || 1), acc), {});

  for (let count in counts) {
    result[0] += Math.floor(counts[count] / 2);
    result[1] += counts[count] % 2;
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |
