# [2511. Maximum Enemy Forts That Can Be Captured](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-enemy-forts-that-can-be-captured)

## Description

You are given a **0-indexed** integer array `forts` of length `n` representing the positions of several forts. `forts[i]` can be `-1`, `0`, or `1` where:

- `-1` represents there is **no fort** at the `ith` position.
- `0` indicates there is an **enemy** fort at the `ith` position.
- `1` indicates the fort at the `ith` the position is under your command.

Now you have decided to move your army from one of your forts at position `i` to an empty position `j` such that:

- `0 <= i, j <= n - 1`
- The army travels over enemy forts **only**. Formally, for all `k` where `min(i,j) < k < max(i,j)`, `forts[k] == 0.`

While moving the army, all the enemy forts that come in the way are **captured**.

Return _the **maximum** number of enemy forts that can be captured_. In case it is **impossible** to move your army, or you do not have any fort under your command, return `0`_._

**Example 1:**

**Input:** forts = \[1,0,0,-1,0,0,0,0,1\]  
**Output:** 4  
**Explanation:**

- Moving the army from position 0 to position 3 captures 2 enemy forts, at 1 and 2.
- Moving the army from position 8 to position 3 captures 4 enemy forts.  
  Since 4 is the maximum number of enemy forts that can be captured, we return 4.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** forts = \[0,0,1,-1\]  
**Output:** 0  
**Explanation:** Since no enemy fort can be captured, 0 is returned.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= forts.length <= 1000`
- `-1 <= forts[i] <= 1`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Approach: Two-pointer
const captureForts = (forts) => {
  let result = 0;

  for (let i = 0, j = 0; i < forts.length; ++i) {
    if (forts[i] !== 0) {
      if (forts[i] * forts[j] === -1) {
        // A 1 and a -1
        result = Math.max(result, i - j - 1);
      }
      j = i; // j tracks the last non-0 we've seen
    }
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |

```js
const captureForts = (forts) => {
  const attack = (forts) => {
    let capturedCount = -1; // -1 means we haven't started capturing
    let maxCaptured = 0;

    for (const fort of forts) {
      if (fort === 1)
        capturedCount = 0; // We can begin capturing
      else if (fort === 0) {
        // Increment captures if we're in capture mode (i.e not -1)
        capturedCount += capturedCount >= 0;
      } else {
        // Reached an empty fort; possibly found a new max
        maxCaptured = Math.max(maxCaptured, capturedCount);
        // Reset flag/count to indicate we aren't in capturing process
        capturedCount = -1;
      }
    }

    return maxCaptured;
  };

  // We want to simulate the process going both directions
  return Math.max(attack(forts), attack(forts.toReversed()));
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |
