# [2558. Take Gifts From the Richest Pile](https://leetcode.com/problems/take-gifts-from-the-richest-pile)

## Description

You are given an integer array `gifts` denoting the number of gifts in various piles. Every second, you do the following:

- Choose the pile with the maximum number of gifts.
- If there is more than one pile with the maximum number of gifts, choose any.
- Reduce the number of gifts in the pile to the floor of the square root of the original number of gifts in the pile.

Return _the number of gifts remaining after_ `k` _seconds._

**Example 1:**

**Input:** gifts = \[25,64,9,4,100\], k = 4  
**Output:** 29  
**Explanation:**  
The gifts are taken in the following way:

- In the first second, the last pile is chosen and 10 gifts are left behind.
- Then the second pile is chosen and 8 gifts are left behind.
- After that the first pile is chosen and 5 gifts are left behind.
- Finally, the last pile is chosen again and 3 gifts are left behind.  
  The final remaining gifts are \[5,8,9,4,3\], so the total number of gifts remaining is 29.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** gifts = \[1,1,1,1\], k = 4  
**Output:** 4  
**Explanation:**  
In this case, regardless which pile you choose, you have to leave behind 1 gift in each pile.  
That is, you can't take any pile with you.  
So, the total gifts remaining are 4.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= gifts.length <= 10^3`
- `1 <= gifts[i] <= 10^9`
- `1 <= k <= 10^3`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
// Approach: Brute-Force
const pickGifts = (gifts, k) => {
  const sortedGifts = gifts.toSorted((a, b) => b - a);

  while (k > 0) {
    sortedGifts.sort((a, b) => b - a);
    sortedGifts[0] = Math.floor(Math.sqrt(sortedGifts[0]));
    --k;
  }

  return sortedGifts.reduce((acc, cur) => acc + cur, 0);
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N \* Log(N))  | O(N)             |

**Python**

```py
# Approach: Using a Heap
def pickGifts(gifts: List[int], k: int) -> int:
    nums = [-num for num in gifts]
    heapify(nums)

    while k:
        tmp = math.isqrt(-heappop(nums))
        heappush(nums, -tmp)
        k -= 1

    return -sum(nums)
```

| Time Complexity    | Space Complexity |
| ------------------ | ---------------- |
| O(N + K \* Log(N)) | O(N)             |
