# [2591. Distribute Money to Maximum Children](https://leetcode.com/problems/distribute-money-to-maximum-children)

## Description

You are given an integer `money` denoting the amount of money (in dollars) that you have and another integer `children` denoting the number of children that you must distribute the money to.

You have to distribute the money according to the following rules:

- All money must be distributed.
- Everyone must receive at least `1` dollar.
- Nobody receives `4` dollars.

Return _the **maximum** number of children who may receive **exactly**_ `8` _dollars if you distribute the money according to the aforementioned rules_. If there is no way to distribute the money, return `-1`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** money = 20, children = 3  
**Output:** 1  
**Explanation:**  
The maximum number of children with 8 dollars will be 1. One of the ways to distribute the money is:

- 8 dollars to the first child.
- 9 dollars to the second child.
- 3 dollars to the third child.

It can be proven that no distribution exists such that number of children getting 8 dollars is greater than 1.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** money = 16, children = 2  
**Output:** 2  
**Explanation:** Each child can be given 8 dollars.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= money <= 200`
- `2 <= children <= 30`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const distMoney = (money, children) => {
  // Give each child a dollar to satisfy condition 2.
  money -= children;

  // Did we run out of money before giving each child a dollar? No solution!
  if (money < 0) return -1;

  // Check if all children can receieve their remaining $7 ($8 total)
  // and leave no remaining money behind.
  if (Math.floor(money / 7) === children && money % 7 === 0) {
    return children;
  }

  // If we can give all kids $8 except one of them, and that kid is left with
  // exactly $4 (not allowed), we have to take a dollar away from another kid
  // (reducing the result) and give it to the kid with $4.
  // Therefore, 2 kids are left without $8 -- the child we took $1 from and
  // the child who originally was left with $4.
  if (Math.floor(money / 7) === children - 1 && money % 7 === 3) {
    return children - 2;
  }

  // Otherwise, even if we have an abundance of money, no more than children - 1
  // can get exactly $8. And no more than money // 7 children can get exactly $8
  // (assuming our money is limited).
  return Math.min(children - 1, Math.floor(money / 7));
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(1)            | O(1)             |

```js
const distMoney = (money, children) => {
  let result = 0;

  if (money < children) return -1;
  if (money > children * 8) return children - 1;

  // Keep assigning 8 dollars to each child until the remaining
  // is >= to remaining children. This ensures it is always possible
  // to give at least 1 dollar to each child.
  while (money > 0 && money - 8 >= children - 1) {
    ++result;
    money -= 8;
    --children;
  }

  if (money === 4 && children === 1) --result;

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |
