# [2739. Total Distance Traveled](https://leetcode.com/problems/total-distance-traveled)

## Description

A truck has two fuel tanks. You are given two integers, `mainTank` representing the fuel present in the main tank in liters and `additionalTank` representing the fuel present in the additional tank in liters.

The truck has a mileage of `10` km per liter. Whenever `5` liters of fuel get used up in the main tank, if the additional tank has at least `1` liters of fuel, `1` liters of fuel will be transferred from the additional tank to the main tank.

Return _the maximum distance which can be traveled._

**Note:** Injection from the additional tank is not continuous. It happens suddenly and immediately for every 5 liters consumed.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** mainTank = 5, additionalTank = 10  
**Output:** 60  
**Explanation:**  
After spending 5 litre of fuel, fuel remaining is (5 - 5 + 1) = 1 litre and distance traveled is 50km.  
After spending another 1 litre of fuel, no fuel gets injected in the main tank and the main tank becomes empty.  
Total distance traveled is 60km.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** mainTank = 1, additionalTank = 2  
**Output:** 10  
**Explanation:**  
After spending 1 litre of fuel, the main tank becomes empty.  
Total distance traveled is 10km.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= mainTank, additionalTank <= 100`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
/*
Approach: Math!
Assume we can transfer x liters from additionalTank to mainTank.
This gives us two inequalities:
x <= additionalTank
mainTank + x > 5x

Because we have to use 5 liters before a transfer, we can't transfer 1 liter from the
additional tank. So we really have the second inequality:
4x < mainTank

So:
x <= (mainTank - 1) // 4

We can use up to mainTank + x liters, and go (mainTank + x) * 10km

A simple example explaining why it works: mainTank (M) = 13, additionalTank (A) = 3

M  M  M  M  M   A  M  M  M  M   A   M  M  M  M   A
1 [2  3  4  5]  6 [7  8  9 10]  11 [12 13 14 15] 16

The first liter is outside of the cycle, and then we have a cycle of length 4, i.e., for every 4 liters from the mainTank we can add 1 liter from the additionalTank.
F(M,A) = 10 * (M + min((M-1)/4, A))
*/
const distanceTraveled = (mainTank, additionalTank) => {
  const litersUsed = mainTank + Math.min(Math.floor((mainTank - 1) / 4), additionalTank);
  const kmPerLiter = 10;
  return litersUsed * kmPerLiter;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(1)            | O(1)             |

```js
// Approach: Brute-Force by directly stimulating the process
const distanceTraveled = (mainTank, additionalTank) => {
  let distance = 0;
  const mileage = 10;

  // Every 5 liters of main fuel causes 1 liter from the additional tank to be transferred, if available
  while (mainTank >= 5) {
    // We use 5 liters worth of fuel
    distance += 5 * mileage;
    mainTank -= 5;

    // If there's ample fuel in the additional tank, transfer it
    if (additionalTank >= 1) {
      --additionalTank;
      ++mainTank;
    }
  }

  // Travel for whatever remains in the main tank after all possible transfers
  while (mainTank >= 1) {
    distance += mileage;
    --mainTank;
  }

  return distance;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |
