# [3038. Maximum Number of Operations with the Same Score I](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-number-of-operations-with-the-same-score-i)

## Description

You are given an array of integers `nums`. Consider the following operation:

- Delete the first two elements `nums` and define the _score_ of the operation as the sum of these two elements.

You can perform this operation until `nums` contains fewer than two elements. Additionally, the **same** _score_ must be achieved in **all** operations.

Return the **maximum** number of operations you can perform.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = \[3,2,1,4,5\]  
**Output:** 2  
**Explanation:**

- We can perform the first operation with the score `3 + 2 = 5`. After this operation, `nums = [1,4,5]`.
- We can perform the second operation as its score is `4 + 1 = 5`, the same as the previous operation. After this operation, `nums = [5]`.
- As there are fewer than two elements, we can't perform more operations.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = \[1,5,3,3,4,1,3,2,2,3\]  
**Output:** 2  
**Explanation:**

- We can perform the first operation with the score `1 + 5 = 6`. After this operation, `nums = [3,3,4,1,3,2,2,3]`.
- We can perform the second operation as its score is `3 + 3 = 6`, the same as the previous operation. After this operation, `nums = [4,1,3,2,2,3]`.
- We cannot perform the next operation as its score is `4 + 1 = 5`, which is different from the previous scores.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** nums = \[5,3\]  
**Output:** 1

**Constraints:**

- `2 <= nums.length <= 100`
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 1000`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const maxOperations = (nums) => {
  // Since the constraints guarantee at least 2 numbers, we can start our
  // result count at 1, as the first two numbers can successfully be scored
  let result = 1;
  const startingScore = nums[0] + nums[1];

  // For every pair of elements after the original two, ensure their
  // score is the same as the original pairs.
  for (let i = 2; i < nums.length - 1; i += 2) {
    const score = nums[i] + nums[i + 1];
    if (score !== startingScore) break;
    ++result;
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |

```js
// Approach: Brute-Force by simulating the process
const maxOperations = (nums) => {
  let result = 0;
  const numsCopy = [...nums];
  const startingScore = numsCopy[0] + numsCopy[1];

  while (numsCopy.length > 1) {
    const score = numsCopy.splice(0, 2).reduce((acc, cur) => acc + cur, 0);
    if (score !== startingScore) break;
    ++result;
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |
