# [3545. Minimum Deletions for At Most K Distinct Characters](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-deletions-for-at-most-k-distinct-characters)

## Description

You are given a string `s` consisting of lowercase English letters, and an integer `k`.

Your task is to delete some (possibly none) of the characters in the string so that the number of **distinct** characters in the resulting string is **at most** `k`.

Return the **minimum** number of deletions required to achieve this.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "abc", k = 2  
**Output:** 1  
**Explanation:**

- `s` has three distinct characters: `'a'`, `'b'` and `'c'`, each with a frequency of 1.
- Since we can have at most `k = 2` distinct characters, remove all occurrences of any one character from the string.
- For example, removing all occurrences of `'c'` results in at most `k` distinct characters. Thus, the answer is 1.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "aabb", k = 2  
**Output:** 0  
**Explanation:**

- `s` has two distinct characters (`'a'` and `'b'`) with frequencies of 2 and 2, respectively.
- Since we can have at most `k = 2` distinct characters, no deletions are required. Thus, the answer is 0.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** s = "yyyzz", k = 1  
**Output:** 2  
**Explanation:**

- `s` has two distinct characters (`'y'` and `'z'`) with frequencies of 3 and 2, respectively.
- Since we can have at most `k = 1` distinct character, remove all occurrences of any one character from the string.
- Removing all `'z'` results in at most `k` distinct characters. Thus, the answer is 2.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 16`
- `1 <= k <= 16`
- `s` consists only of lowercase English letters.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const minDeletion = (s, k) => {
  let result = 0;
  const count = new Array(26).fill(0);

  for (let char of s) {
    ++count[char.charCodeAt() - 97];
  }

  count.sort((a, b) => b - a);

  for (let i = k; i < 26; ++i) {
    result += count[i];
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |

```js
const minDeletion = (s, k) => {
  let result = 0;
  const freq = {};

  // Count the frequency of each character
  for (let char of s) {
    freq[char] = freq[char] + 1 || 1;
  }

  // Sort the frequencies in descending order. We do this so we can prioritize
  // keeping chars with the most frequency, as we want to minimize the number
  // of deletions required. So when we decide which k values to keep, we pick the first
  // k -- the ones with the most frequency. The remaining items will have smaller frequencies
  // than these first k items, ensuring fewer deletions.
  const sortedFreq = Array.from(Object.values(freq)).sort((a, b) => b - a);

  // We can keep the first k uniques. So from the kth + 1
  // and onward, count how many chars we need to remove
  for (let i = k; i < sortedFreq.length; ++i) {
    result += sortedFreq[i];
  }

  return result;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N \* Log(N))  | O(N)             |
