# [3731. Find Missing Elements](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-missing-elements)

## Description

You are given an integer array `nums` consisting of **unique** integers.

Originally, `nums` contained **every integer** within a certain range. However, some integers might have gone **missing** from the array.

The **smallest** and **largest** integers of the original range are still present in `nums`.

Return a **sorted** list of all the missing integers in this range. If no integers are missing, return an **empty** list.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = \[1,4,2,5\]  
**Output:** \[3\]  
**Explanation:**  
The smallest integer is 1 and the largest is 5, so the full range should be `[1,2,3,4,5]`. Among these, only 3 is missing.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = \[7,8,6,9\]  
**Output:** \[\]  
**Explanation:**  
The smallest integer is 6 and the largest is 9, so the full range is `[6,7,8,9]`. All integers are already present, so no integer is missing.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** nums = \[5,1\]  
**Output:** \[2,3,4\]  
**Explanation:**  
The smallest integer is 1 and the largest is 5, so the full range should be `[1,2,3,4,5]`. The missing integers are 2, 3, and 4.

**Constraints:**

- `2 <= nums.length <= 100`
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 100`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const findMissingElements = (nums) => {
  const seen = new Array(101).fill(false);
  let smallest = 100;
  let largest = 1;

  for (let num of nums) {
    seen[num] = true;
    smallest = Math.min(smallest, num);
    largest = Math.max(largest, num);
  }

  const missing = [];
  for (let i = smallest + 1; i < largest; ++i) {
    if (!seen[i]) missing.push(i);
  }

  return missing;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(1)            | O(1)             |

```js
const findMissingElements = (nums) => {
  let smallest = 100;
  let largest = 0;

  for (let num of nums) {
    smallest = Math.min(smallest, num);
    largest = Math.max(largest, num);
  }

  const numSet = new Set(nums);
  const missingNums = [];

  for (let i = smallest + 1; i < largest; ++i) {
    if (!numSet.has(i)) missingNums.push(i);
  }

  return missingNums;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |
