# [3823. Reverse Letters Then Special Characters in a String](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-letters-then-special-characters-in-a-string)

## Description

You are given a string `s` consisting of lowercase English letters and special characters.

Your task is to perform these **in order**:

- **Reverse** the **lowercase letters** and place them back into the positions originally occupied by letters.
- **Reverse** the **special characters** and place them back into the positions originally occupied by special characters.

Return the resulting string after performing the reversals.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = ")ebc#da@f("  
**Output:** "(fad@cb#e)"  
**Explanation:**

- The letters in the string are `['e', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'a', 'f']`:
  - Reversing them gives `['f', 'a', 'd', 'c', 'b', 'e']`
  - `s` becomes `")fad#cb@e("`
- ​​​​​​​The special characters in the string are `[')', '#', '@', '(']`:
  - Reversing them gives `['(', '@', '#', ')']`
  - `s` becomes `"(fad@cb#e)"`

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "z"  
**Output:** "z"  
**Explanation:**  
The string contains only one letter, and reversing it does not change the string. There are no special characters.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** s = "!@#\$%^&\*()"  
**Output:** ")(\*&^%\$#@!"  
**Explanation:**  
The string contains no letters. The string contains all special characters, so reversing the special characters reverses the whole string.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 100`
- `s` consists only of lowercase English letters and the special characters in `"!@#$%^&*()"`.

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const reverseByType = (s) => {
const reverseByType = (s) => {
    const result = s.split('');
    let left = 0;
    let right = s.length - 1;
    const lowerRegex = /[a-z]/;
    const specialRegex = /[!@#$%^&*()]/;

    // Reverse lowercase letters
    while (left < right) {
        while (left < right && !lowerRegex.test(s[left])) ++left;
        while (left < right && !lowerRegex.test(s[right])) --right;
        if (left < right) {
            [result[left], result[right]] = [result[right], result[left]];
            ++left;
            --right;
        }
    }

    left = 0;
    right = s.length - 1;

    // Reverse special characters
    while (left < right) {
        while (left < right && !specialRegex.test(s[left])) ++left;
        while (left < right && !specialRegex.test(s[right])) --right;

        if (left < right) {
            [result[left], result[right]] = [result[right], result[left]];
            ++left;
            --right;
        }
    }

    return result.join('');
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |
