# [746. Min Cost Climbing Stairs](https://leetcode.com/problems/min-cost-climbing-stairs)

## Description

You are given an integer array `cost` where `cost[i]` is the cost of `ith` step on a staircase. Once you pay the cost, you can either climb one or two steps.

You can either start from the step with index `0`, or the step with index `1`.

Return _the minimum cost to reach the top of the floor_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** cost = \[10,15,20\]  
**Output:** 15  
**Explanation:** You will start at index 1.

- Pay 15 and climb two steps to reach the top.
  The total cost is 15.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** cost = \[1,100,1,1,1,100,1,1,100,1\]  
**Output:** 6  
**Explanation:** You will start at index 0.

- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 2.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 4.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 6.
- Pay 1 and climb one step to reach index 7.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 9.
- Pay 1 and climb one step to reach the top.
  The total cost is 6.

**Constraints:**

- `2 <= cost.length <= 1000`
- `0 <= cost[i] <= 999`

## My Solution

**JavaScript**

```js
const minCostClimbingStairs = (cost) => {
  const n = cost.length;
  const memo = {};

  const minCostFrom = (i) => {
    // There are no more steps to climb!
    if (i >= n) return 0;

    if (i in memo) return memo[i];

    // From the current step i, we can climb 1 or 2 steps
    // The cost from step i to the end is the cost of step i
    // plus the minimize cost of the stairs thereafter
    const oneStep = cost[i] + minCostFrom(i + 1);
    const twoStep = cost[i] + minCostFrom(i + 2);

    // We want whichever of the next two steps minimizes the cost
    memo[i] = Math.min(oneStep, twoStep);
    return memo[i];
  };

  // Calculate the min costs starting from steps 0 and 1
  const startOnStep0 = minCostFrom(0);
  const startOnStep1 = minCostFrom(1);

  // We want whichever of the two first steps minimizes the cost
  return Math.min(startOnStep0, startOnStep1);
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(N)             |

```js
const minCostClimbingStairs = (cost) => {
  const n = cost.length;
  let prev2 = 0;
  let prev1 = 0;

  for (let i = 2; i <= n; ++i) {
    const current = Math.min(prev1 + cost[i - 1], prev2 + cost[i - 2]);
    prev2 = prev1;
    prev1 = current;
  }

  return prev1;
};
```

| Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| O(N)            | O(1)             |
